Subliminal, released Nov 5th 2020, a year from today. Standing firmly in the intersection of the narrative intrigue of Stanley Parable and puzzle and environmental design of Portal. Subliminal quietly observes the meaning of a game, the space it creates and the way players work through spaces. Out of Subliminal's careful observation emerges a pointed challenge, a knowing glare straight through the player's camera that seems to say, "This is happening but not how you think." 
This game takes the literal path to metaphor. Things aren't what they seem and our perspectives lend a lot to our understanding of a space. It's not easy to create puzzles. Often you're up against what the player knows and what the developer knows but the difficulty is making sure both parties are aligned on what is known and that things are known in the order they should be. What makes puzzles too easy is when all the information is revealed at once and it's easy to put together the pieces of the solution. When puzzles become frustrating is when what is needed is unclear or things aren't revealed in a way the player expects. Something about puzzle design is so linear and so thought out, the trust in the player that developers and players are seeing the same things and will come to exactly the same conclusion.
Lighting a scene, composition, affordance all lead the player's eye and help clue the player into what needs to happen and where one needs to go. Subliminal's sets are so stripped down, like most puzzle games. Only one or two items are interactive. Only one or two exits with only one leading to progress. Strangely minimal these sets don't usually miss the opportunity to let your imagination run a bit. 
A broken glass two way mirror in one of the first intro stages, a blue chess piece that behaves like magic, a door illusion, and an alarm clock that only seems to wake you up from a dream within a dream. It's clear the player is playing as a character that's still asleep. And like many retellings of dreams, they often loop back on itself or maybe you start out in the middle of something but can never recall how you got there. Superliminal makes use of the muddy nature of our sleep narratives and pairs it perfectly with the sometimes uncanny valley narrative tropes present in video game design. Even down to the loading bars that never seem to just load the same way every time.
It's nice to be in a space where every design decision is building up to something so focused, so tight of a message: This is a game about perspectives, illusions, and tricking the mind.
