In the first 10 ish hours of playing I felt pretty discontent with the game. Many hours pass before you get a taste of the dungeon. As always the least helpful stuff is pointed out. Tutorials are text block pop ups and the main character is plain to allow anyone to project themselves onto him. 
But all this, and I was still compelled to keep playing. At this point, I've invested at least 60 hours into the game. I don't think I'm even halfway through but I refuse to look up how far along I am.
I don't feel trapped in the game loop by any sunk cost fallacy or really even compelled by the stories (i skim most of the dialogue).
It took a lot of convos with Ria to help me understand my compulsion to keep playing. Only around hour 50 did I figure it out. It's entirely the concepts and level design around palaces. Even sometimes battling feels tedious at times. Palaces in their art direction and level design tickle a part of my brain. The puzzle solving in 3D space compels me though a huge other half of the game.
Similar to Psychonauts (but simplified) the 3D space is narratively and metaphorically resonant. The palaces ask you to explore the narrative importance of representing a person's twisted mind. Why is a humble artist's mind palace a solid gold art gallery with portraits of his students as the only art present? It's such an elegant way to epresent the nuanced idea that perhaps people that seem evil are driven by their own inner logic. Maybe evil people don't exist and maybe everyone isn't understood (persona doesn't go this far but does play around with the question of who is defining justice for vigilantes?). Maybe people are driven by shame, societal pressure, fear or hatred and make decisions that otherwise seem cruel and wrong to anyone else.
So, that's the visual metaphor. 
The level design also excels in it's puzzle making. I only hesitate to say it's comparable to Psychonauts only because of the simplicity of the interaction: [ress A to Crawl; press A to Hide; press A to press button; walk/run; attack; doesn't simplify the problem space of solving the room. Psychonauts relied a lot on a 10 wheel ability set to complicate it's problem space. As soon as you figured out which one or two abilities you needed to move forward the rest was just a skills execution challenge. Slow mo the fans and move through them with the right timing. Persona's puzzles remind me more of adventure games and escape rooms which more ask the player to press the button in the right order or find and place the right object which isn't exemplary but definitely compelling.
The level usually does a good job at leading the eye and when it's not, thief sight, does a lot of the work of pointing out interactable paths that definitely surpasses Pikmin's help system, an arrow that calculates a path to the next objective based on your position. A case can definitely be made that thief sight is doing a LOT of the work for the level design but that wouldn't feel truly fair. Lots of visual elements are consistant and do well to teach the player where and when to climb or crawl, etc.
