EXT. - MONSTER'S FAMILY HOME - NIGHT
THE PURPOSE OF THIS EPISODE IS TO ESTABLISH THE CHANGING 
INTERNAL DILEMMA FACED BY MONSTERS THAT WERE THE MOST 
SUCCESSFUL SCARERS AT MONSTERS INC. THROUGH THE ENERGY 
TRANSITION MANY TOP SCARERS FELT IN THE CHANGING DYNAMIC. 
THEIR SKILLS WERE NO LONGER APPLICABLE AND MANY VETERANS 
THAT TOOK PRIDE IN THEIR CRAFT AND THEIR WORK WERE SUDDENLY 
DEEMED IN NEED OF TRAINING. THIS SCENE WILL SEEK TO EXPLORE 
THE PERSONAL, INTERNAL STRUGGLE OF THIS DYNAMIC CHANGE THAT 
EFFECTED FAMILIES. MANY TIE THEIR PERSONAL IDENTITY TO 
THEIR WORK.

A car with horns pulls into a classic suburban home drive 
way. The lights in the windows are on. A monster grunts as 
they struggle out of the car and lock the car. 

They're half way up the walkway to the front door when they 
stop. A sigh as they return to their car, re-unlock the 
door, squeeze back into the car to grab the briefcase in 
the feet of the passenger area, hit their head, and finally 
slam the car door again. It's been a hard day.

INT. MONSTER'S FAMILY HOME

CLOSE UP ON THE DOOR.

Monster slowly creaks the door open. The light inside 
illuminates part of their face. Monster has drooping eyes, 
and a weighty frown.
                         
                         CLEMENTINE (O.S.)
            --ROAAAR LOOK MOM I'M jUST LikE 
            BabA!!! ROAAR ROOR
                         
                         MEELY
            Come on clementine, let's get ready 
            for bed before Baba gets home.

Monster's Kid, Clementine spots their parent and runs over 
to them. 
                         
                         CLEMENTINE
            Babby! Babby! RROOOOOARR!! Look! I'm 
            practicing being such a good scarer 
            just like you. I'm gonna help power 
            Monstopolis and make you so proud.
                         
                         MONSTER
            Awe, that's nice bud. 

MONSTER half-heartedly pats CLEMENTINE'S head and walks 
away to the dark living room. The TV is on in there. 
MONSTER sits in front of the soft pulsing glow.
                         
                         MONSTER (cont'd)
            Sigh.

On TV we see Monster flip through a bunch of classic 80s 
sit-com tropes of various monsters stumbling through work 
that describe the discontentment Monster feels about work.

1. TWO MONSTERS AT A CONVEYOR BELT THEYRE SORTING THROUGH A 
BUNCH OF ITEMS. OVER TIME THE CONVEYOR BELT GETS FASTER AND 
THE WORKERS BECOME OVERWHELMED AND BEGIN THROWING THE ITEMS

2. A MONSTER IS LABELING THINGS. LABELS START STICKING ON 
THEIR TENTACLES UNTIL THEY GET ALL TIED UP 

3. ONE MONSTER IS CARRYING A LOT OF BOXES, THEY SLIP AND 
MARBLES FALL ON THE FLOOR, ANOTHER MONSTER COMES BY ALSO 
CARRYING BOXES AND SLIPS ON THE MARBLES DROPPING MORE 
MARBLES, ANOTHER MONSTER COMES BY AND SLIPS, AND ON AND ON 
UNTIL THERES A PILE OF 10 MONSTERS AND A MOUND OF MARBLES
                         
                         MEELY (O.S.)
            Hey? Honey?
                         
                         MONSTER
            (pause) ..yes?
                         
                         MEELY
            Do.. you wanna join us for dinner?

Monster's face doesn't seem to register the question but 
isn't watching the TV either.
                         
                         MEELY (cont'd)
            I think clemmy's got something 
            they've wanted to share with us.

Slowly and laboriously, Monster begins to get up from their 
seat.

INT. DINING TABLE - NIGHT

The table is set. The food is piping hot, delicious and 
plentiful. Clementine has taken their seat and is bouncing 
with excitement.
                         
                         CLEMENTINE
            Okay! So at school today we were 
            drawing what we're most proud of

The child pulls out a drawing of Monster looking scary 
benching two full tanks of energy looking cartoonishly 
buff.
                         
                         CLEMENTINE (cont'd)
            So I drew you papa! Cause you're the 
            best scarer in all of the world and 
            you make me the most proud.

Monster gently holds the drawing in their hands. A tear 
drops on the page distorting the colors on his happy 
cartoon face.

Monster abruptly stands up from the table. Not making eye 
contact with anyone.
                         
                         MONSTER
            I gotta go to the bathroom.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

In the dark bathroom a single light flicking on illuminated 
his face making his eyes look even more tired and sunken.

A tear accidentally dripped down his face.

INT. MONSTERS INC - OFFICE CUBICLE - DAY

Monster is rubbing his temples staring at the drawing in 
his hands, frustrated.
                         
                         COWORKER #1
            Hey Monster! Hooow goes the energy 
            numbers? I feel like I haven't seen 
            you on the scare - I mean the laugh 
            floor!
                         
                         MONSTER
            Uh, yeah... just gotta catch up with 
            some paperwork from before the 
            transition. Cross those eyes and dot 
            those tees you know?
                         
                         COWORKER #1
            Oh, yeah I get that. Well, I hope to 
            see you out there soon! You're our 
            best one in this whole place.
                         
                         MONSTER
            Ah, haha, yeah. Thanks for saying 
            that. I think the change has been a 
            bit tough and I -
                         
                         COWORKER #1
            I guess but I dunno. I'm not worried 
            about you. You're gonna be making 
            record numbers again like before 
            just you wait.

INT. MONSTERS INC - LAUGH FLOOR - LATER

SHOT STARTS FROM THE BACK WALL AND PULLS BACK TOWARDS THE 
ENTRANCE WHERE MONSTER STANDS.

Monsters hustle back and forth to doors and back desks like 
a well coordinated unit. Energy canisters get filled and 
replaced, carts full of energy are wheeled out. The 
monsters working the floor look confident and sure of 
themselves. Only a quarter of the stations are in use.

Monster stands at the edge of the laugh floor. His 
shoulders are slumped. A coworker notices him staring 
blankly at the commotion.
                         
                         COWORKER #2
            Oh hey! Monster! I haven't seen you 
            on the laugh floor in a bit! How's 
            it going?
                         
                         MONSTER
            (still entranced by the bustle) 
            Good, good. I'm alright.
                         
                         COWORKER #2
            Ah, good! How's the kid?
                         
                         MONSTER
            Oh? Clementine? Good, good.
                         
                         COWORKER #2
            Hey that's great to hear. I gotta 
            say, I was a bit worried when I 
            haven't been seeing your name on the 
            leaderboard. But you seem good! 
            Distracted with new projects maybe?
                         
                         MONSTER
            ... You could say that. I guess.
                         
                         COWORKER #2
            That's the least I could expect from 
            a guy like you, Monster. I knew 
            you'd take this change in stride.

Monster is making a face that looks more pale. Still not 
making eye contact with his coworker. They look a million 
miles away

INT. MONSTER'S FAMILY HOME - DINING TABLE - NIGHT

Trained on Monster's unmoving thousand yard stare. The only 
thing that changes is the environment and the bustling work 
sounds are now replaced by their partner and child arguing 
about some vegetable bargain for tv time.
                         
                         MEELY (O.S.)
            Come on now Clemmie! You promised 
            just a bit more broccoli and then 
            you can have tv until bed.
                         
                         CLEMENTINE (O.S.)
            NO! NO! BABbY BABBY!!! Tell mama no! 
            Tell them no! NO! NooooOOO!

Monster's face begins to break. Tears stream down their 
unchanging face. The arguing trails off. 
                         
                         MEELY (O.S.)
            Honey? A-Are you okay?

Monster's face full breaks down at this point. His hands go 
to their face like a shield to hide behind.
                         
                         CLEMENTINE
            B-babby? I... I'll eat my broccoli 
            (mouth full) see?

Meely's hand reaches over to Monster's hand covering their 
face. Meely's hand gently traces Monster's eye bags.
                         
                         MEELY
            Oh, honey... Your eyes...

Monster pauses until they finally look up and over to 
Meely.

Reflected shot of Meely looking back into Monster's eyes 
with absolute earnest, love, tenderness, and care.

Monster struggles to put words together.
                         
                         CLEMENTINE
            Babby... are you okay now?
                         
                         MONSTER
            (looking over to Clementine with a 
            softness) Oh, Clemmy... I'm really 
            sorry to scare you baby. (tearing 
            up) Work has just been tough.

Clementine gets out of their seat and comes over to their 
parent. They embrace and Clementine looks up to Monster.
                         
                         MONSTER (cont'd)
            I just want to make you proud and 
            it's getting harder to know if I can 
            do that with everything going on.
                         
                         CLEMENTINE
            (snuggling into Monster's chest) but 
            Babby, you already make me proud. 
            You always make me proud.

Meely is up now and is on the other side of Monster 
embracing them. 
                         
                         MEELY
            Always. We love you so much. We're 
            here for you. You've carried this 
            weight by yourself for so long, let 
            us help carry this weight with you.
                         
                         CLEMENTINE
            Yeah!! Look I'm super strong Babby! 
            (squeezes Monster as hard as they 
            can)
                         
                         MONSTER
            (weeping and smiling and holding 
            tight to his family) Awe, I love my 
            family.

Zoom out
                         
                         CLEMENTINE
            WAIT Babby!! don't squeeze me I have 
            toots!!--

A LOUD LOUD fart erupts followed by protesting and 
laughing. The shot continues to zoom out as we see more 
houses in a row of suburbs.
